Rebecca: People will come into my office
and say, “well, you know, I just googled
you and I want to be honest...
and now I feel like I can't believe
I've been coming in here
and bitching about all the things
that I'm talking about,
knowing that you're going deaf and blind.”
So then we have to process that.
I have to say to them,
“What does that mean that I'm going
deaf and blind and that you
don't have DeafBlindness?
Does it mean that I'm worse off than you are?”
First and foremost, I'm a psychotherapist.
That's my job but it's something that
I really love, I'm passionate about,
and I also have a disability.
As opposed to, “I'm a woman with a disability
who is a psychotherapist.”
[music plays]
I was raised in a very
community oriented family.
My grandmother was one of the first
educators in the civil rights movement.
She did so much with
trying to help people
who were disadvantaged.
Growing up in a family who were very,
very focused on being an
active part of the community,
that really influenced my ability
to be able to go out in the world
and maybe stick out like
a sore thumb at times.
Mental health is so stigmatized,
even more so than disability in many ways.
For so many reasons,
whether it's societal,
whether it's cultural,
whether it's religious reasons,
that it is unacceptable to struggle.
When we have mental health issues,
we oftentimes fight ourselves.
We have this tremendous internal battle.
With trying to make ourselves think
right or to if I was just strong enough,
if I just had more willpower.
All of these different reasons
or excuses that we make
for not being able to do something
and we don't allow ourselves to sit with,
what if I have mental illness?
(music plays)
So when you work with someone
who is low vision or DeafBlind,
and let's say your office is
a beautiful office filled with windows
and that you sit in a chair
with windows behind you,
and the person that you're meeting with,
your client, is sitting in a
on a couch across from you.
They won't be able to potentially
see your face.
Your face will be shadowed
because of their vision.
So even being able
to create an environment,
set up an environment
where they can comfortably
be able to see you with the vision
that they still have
so that that person is not having to adapt
to whatever your space is
that's based on a sighted person's,
you know, comfort or world.
Anything from whether it's someone
navigating and having to find your office.
You know, if you give someone an address
like my office is at 555 5th Avenue.
Okay, well, it would be more helpful:
my office is at 555 5th Avenue.
You can take the 6 train to 51st Street.
When you walk into the door,
there will be a doorman's station to your right.
Like those specifics to provide
context and guidelines
for them to be able to access your elevator
or the stairs to your building.
If you need to grab someone's arm
to help them find the seat.
There are a lot of things
that maybe traditionally
would not be comfortable
or appropriate in a hearing sighted
therapeutic setting
that you may have to completely bypass
when you're working with someone
who has vision or hearing loss or both.
I address it right away
because it's something that's important
for us to talk about and to continue
to process in our therapeutic process.
[music plays]
Some of the core issues that I really
had to face and deal with are grief and loss.
And I think as I've gone
through transitions
throughout my own process of losing
both my vision and my hearing
is needing to grieve and mourn and be able
to just have someone there with me.
Not to try to make me feel better, but
just to be present and to validate that.
And I think oftentimes when we
think about therapists and therapy
and all of these different modalities
we use, first and foremost,
someone just needs to know
that you're validating how they feel.
Because how we feel is not
something that we can control.
We can control how we respond.
We can be mindful
about not being as impulsive
or compulsive, but you
can't control how you feel.
And when you have a disability,
there's so much anger that you feel
towards yourself because of your own
internalized ableism towards other people
who maybe weren't able to meet
your needs or recognize your needs.
How society doesn't accommodate you,
how society and the world is not accessible.
And so this anger,
I think, can build and develop
and just percolate inside of people.
And I think that as someone
with a disability,
it’s something that's so important
to be able to develop again a relationship with,
to allow yourself to feel, to allow
yourself to express, to communicate,
to get out.
Because when you live in that anger,
it means that you're operating
and engaging with the world
from a place of resentment.
What I found is that when
you don't speak your needs,
when you don't communicate
how this could be an easier
conversation for you, it means
that we're both struggling.
I'm struggling to be able to get
the information to you
and you're struggling to receive
the information from me.
Oftentimes, it's just being
able to teach people
from an advocacy standpoint
as their therapist.
And another part of it is when
someone share something with me
because I've experienced it firsthand,
I often find that people who have vision loss
for instance, will say,
“I've never had anybody give me
feedback like that before.”
Or, “I've never had anyone
describe what I'm feeling so aptly.”
And so I think that there is
this understanding based on experience.
I think the best therapists are the ones
who have been through things themselves.
And so I think there is this
feeling of being,
no pun intended, seen or being heard
in a way that they never have before
with someone who doesn't
live with the same challenges.
[music plays]